This illumination is sometimes the product of years of incubation

and study.  It is a creative insight that "pops" from unconscious

to conscious thought, after the blocks inhibiting it have been

removed.  The creative insights, if truly what the world would

call creative, are ideas that shed new light on an aspect of the

infinite universe.  They are what influence the observer which is

te essence of creativity.  Without them, progress of society would

come to a screaming, destructive halt.  The quality of these

creative insights, or how much they improve upon known principles

is dependant upon how much data they represent.  In other words,

the more data that the creative person gathers, and the more he

challenges himself with others ideas, the more he will have to

incubate.  Thus, a better and more "creative" solution can be

derived.

     One important step and effects on that step remain to be

seen.  The step is verification, which sets the whole

process into an everlasting cycle.  Verification very much

resembles the preparation stage in that the creator analyzes his

result.  It is also the point where the creator, in his creative

process, returns to his conscious self and displays his result to

the world.  It is important to display the result, or object, for

without the world knowing of its existance, it could not be termed

"creative".  The trouble is, many good ideas stop at this step

because people are afraid to express their creative insights.

They are afraid of being evaluated, being alone, disturbing

trends, and especially of being "wrong".  Peer pressure greatly

influences verification in that the person will tend to conform

rather than rebel.  It takes much courage to express a radical,
creative idea to the world.  The creative person must be willing

to take risks, and should trust himself and his environment in

order to share his creative solutions.

     The nature of creativity can be clarified by examining its

three parts separately.  They are the essence, the process and the

effects upon that process.  When one witnesses a revolutionary

insight or new truth evidenced in an object he will feel a sense

that something is not quite right.  In this way he will challenge

his thinking to come up with his own answer to that problem in

order to alleviate his disequilibrium.  The fact that a creative

object can initiate such revelations in one's thinking and in this

way expose more new truth expose more new truth is the essence of

creativity.  The second part of the nature of creativity is the

process, or steps, by which a creative person can arrive at a new

insight.  This, like the essence, can also be broken up, but in

four ways.  Preparation, incubation, illumination, and

verification are the four steps in this generalized process.  But,

certain attitudes that a person holds such as fear, pressure or

lack of trust can severly limit their creative process, thus

decreasing the creativity of, or the amount of thought represented

by their creative product.  On the other hand, if the individual

has challenged himself with new ideas and data, his creative

result will represent more thought and be that much more creative.

 These creative insights about an aspect of the universe are very

important to the functioning and existance of our society.

Without them, progress would halt and man's existance on Earth

would have no purpose.


